Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
 
  
 
 
Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement :  
Main terms & conditions 
 
 
Between 
 
Proximus, 
 Having its registered address at 27, Bld roi Albert II, B-1030 Brussels 
 
..................................................... 
(Hereinafter referred to as "Proximus") 
 
And 
 
<<Operator>>, 
having its registered address: 
..................................................... 
(Hereinafter referred to as "Operator") 
 
Both Proximus and Operator being jointly referred to as the Parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
1. Introduction and scope 
 
1.1. This a unilateral agreement for International Roaming for the provision by 
Proximus of Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Services, in order to enable 
Roaming Customers of Operator to gain access to mobile telecommunications 
services in the geographic areas where Proximus operates as a VPMN. This 
agreement is for Direct Roaming Wholesale Access (“agreement”), as defined 
below. 
 
1.2. The Operator is either (i) a MNO constituting a Roaming Provider or (ii) a full 
MVNO which operates as an MNO in relation to international roaming and which 
equally constitutes a Roaming Provider.  This reference offer is intended for 
EU/EEA MNO’s and full MVNO’s having obtained a License and/or Authorization 
for offering mobile services by the authorities in their EU/EEA country of origin, 
excluding Belgium. 
1.3. This Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement contains the basic principles 
applicable to the Services provided by Proximus to Operator. 
1.4. The Services and the technical terms and conditions offered by Proximus to 
Operator shall not differ substantially from those provided by Proximus to other 
Operators who request a similar service upon similar technical, qualitative and 
pricing conditions, however subject to technical availability. Without prejudice to 
the foregoing, the Parties may alternatively directly amend the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement, or otherwise include deviations.  
1.5. The Annexes, including the Overview of the Annex Structure, constitute an 
integral part of the Agreement. In case of discrepancy between different parts of 
the Agreement the following order of interpretation shall be applied:  
1. the main body of this Agreement; and  
2. the Annexes 
1.6. In case of additional requirements, exceptions and/or contradictions between the 
Agreement and any Technical Specifications or GSM Association Permanent 
Reference Documents, the provisions of the Agreement shall prevail. 
1.7. Subject to applicable laws, the Parties agree to be bound by GSMA Permanent 
Reference documents relevant to International Roaming for example but not 
limited to: 
1. GSMA PRDs related to Quality of Service; 
2. GSMA PRDs related to Fraud Detection; and 
3. GSMA PRDs relating to Billing between the parties including Invoicing, 
Settlement and dispute resolution. 
1.8 The conclusion of the Agreement is subject to the respect of the procedure for 
access requests, as described on Proximus website.  Moreover, as a condition 
precedent for the signature of the present Agreement, such Agreement may not 
be signed (or renewed) if during the 12 months preceding the envisaged date of 
signature/renewal, the Operator has been subject to a notice of termination sent 
by Proximus in the context of Direct Wholesale Roaming Access services or to 
penalties for abusive use of the then ongoing Wholesale Roaming Access 
Agreement. 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
 
2. Starting Date 
2.1. The actual commercial starting date for International Roaming shall be the date 
as agreed by both Parties in written form after successful completion of all 
necessary network and billing test procedures. 
 
3. Definitions 
For the purpose of the Agreement the following terms shall have the meanings set forth 
in their respective definitions below, unless a different meaning is called for in the context 
of another provision in the Agreement: 
 
3.1.  "Affiliated Company" of a Party means any other legal entity: 
1. directly or indirectly owning or controlling the Party, or 
2. under the direct or indirect ownership or control of the same legal 
entity directly or indirectly owning or controlling the Party, or 
3. directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the Party, for so long as 
such ownership or control lasts. 
 
Ownership or control shall exist through the direct or indirect ownership of more 
than 50 % of the nominal value of the issued equity share capital or of more 
than 50 % of the shares entitling the holders to vote for the election of directors 
or persons performing similar functions. 
3.2. 
3.3. 
"Agreement" shall mean this Direct Wholesale Roaming 
Access Agreement together with the Annexes attached 
hereto. 
"Date of the Agreement" shall mean the date as of which 
both Parties have signed the Agreement by their duly 
authorized representatives. 
3.4. Direct Wholesale Roaming Access shall have the 
meaning as defined in Article 2 (2) (p) of the Roaming 
Regulation, with the exception of wholesale roaming resale 
access as defined in Article 2 (2) (q) of the Roaming 
Regulation. 
3.5. 
3.6. 
3.7. 
"GSM Association General Assembly" shall mean that 
body of the GSM Association formed by the Members and 
Associate Members. 
"GSM Association Permanent Reference Documents" 
means a document noted as such by the PSMC to the 
General Assembly and listed as such by Headquarters on 
the list of Permanent Reference Documents. 
“International Roaming” or “IR” shall mean the provision 
of Services by Proximus in respect of which access is 
granted by Roaming Customers of Operator through 
Proximus’ s PMN. 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
3.8. 
3.9. 
"Public Mobile Network“ or "PMN" shall mean a network 
that complies with the definition of a GSM network as set 
out in the Articles of Association of the GSM Association 
(AA.16).1 
 
"Roaming Customer" shall have the meaning as defined 
in Article 2 (2) (g) of the Roaming Regulation and shall in 
practice mean a person or entity with a valid legal 
relationship with Operator using a GSM SIM (Subscriber 
Identity Module) and/or a GSM USIM 
(Universal 
Subscriber Identity Module) for use by that person or entity 
of the Services while roaming on Proximus’s PMN in 
accordance with 
this 
Agreement. 
terms and conditions of 
the 
3.10. Roaming Provider shall have the meaning as defined in 
Article 2 (2) (a) of the Roaming Regulation. 
3.11. Roaming Regulation shall mean the Regulation (EU) No. 
2015/2120 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
of 25 November 2015 amending Regulation (EU) No 
531/2012 on roaming on public mobile communications 
networks within the Union, O.J., L 310/1 of 26 November 
2015. 
3.12. "Services" shall mean the services of Direct Wholesale 
Roaming Access provided under this Agreement, as 
specified in Annexes 2 and 10, as the same may be 
amended from time to time by Proximus. 
3.13. “Session” shall mean the time between PDP Context 
Activation until PDP Context deactivation. 
3.14. "TAP" shall mean Transferred Account Procedure as 
defined and described in GSM Association Permanent 
Reference Documents. 
3.15. "Technical Specifications" shall mean the technical 
specifications defined and adopted by 3GPP (Third 
Generation Partnership Project), 
the ETSI 
technical specifications defined and adopted by 3GPP. 
including 
3.16. The 
terms 
"Member", 
"Associate Member", and 
"Headquarters" shall bear the meanings ascribed to them 
in the Articles of Association of the GSM Association 
(AA16). 
 
 
 
 
1 Please note that in AA16 GSM network refers to the family of GSM mobile communications 
systems and future evolutions thereof, e.g. GSM, DCS, PCS, UMTS or its equivalent.  
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
4. Annexes 
 
4.1.  The Annexes are divided as set out in the Overview of the Annex Structure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. Technical Framework 
5.1. In respect of and subject to their licenses or rights and other national binding 
regulations to establish and operate Public Mobile Networks, the Parties to the 
Agreement agree, subject to Article 5.2, to establish IR in accordance with: 
1. relevant Technical Specifications;  
2. all binding GSM Association Permanent Reference Documents; and  
3. those non-binding GSM Association Permanent Reference Documents 
which are agreed by the Parties and specifically set out in the 
Annexes; including in each case all the commercial aspects, as defined 
in the Agreement, including the Annexes hereto. 
5.2. Additional requirements and exceptions to the Technical Specifications and GSM 
Association Permanent Reference Documents, as agreed between the Parties, 
are detailed in the Agreement and/or Annexes to the Agreement.  
 
6. Management of Modifications to the Services 
6.1. Following notice of change served by Proximus to implement new Services or 
changes to any existing Services in accordance with Article 19.2, section 2 
both Parties shall discuss the impact of any such change for Roaming 
Customers (including Roaming Customers’ access to these Services) and in 
relation to:  
1. network and billing test procedures as set out in the Technical 
Specifications and the GSM Association Permanent Reference 
Documents, as requested by either Party;  
2. administrative activities; and 
3. 
the targeted starting date for the changed services. 
6.2 The Roaming provider is entitled to ask the Direct Wholesale Operator, prior to 
the launch, a forecast of all voice, SMS and data traffic for the coming 12 
months after commercial launch. These forecasts will enable Proximus to 
make the Services available in the best possible conditions. Consequently, 
such forecasts shall be based on reliable data and Operator undertakes to 
update them at the end of each calendar semester starting from the semester 
following the commercial starting date, by consistently maintaining a 12-month 
anticipation. In case of inaccurate forecasts, Proximus will not be liable for any 
default in the provision of the Services. 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
7. Charging, Billing & Accounting 
7.1  When a Roaming Customer uses the Services made available hereunder by 
Proximus, Operator shall be responsible for payment of charges for the said 
Services so used in accordance with the tariff of Proximus.  
7.2 The Roaming provider is entitled to ask the Wholesale Operator, prior to the 
commercial launch, to provide a bank guarantee based on the traffic forecast 
for the coming twelve months. If traffic volumes change the roaming provider 
may request the bank guarantee to be changed accordingly.  
 
 
8. Implementation of TAP 
8.1. The Parties shall implement TAP according to the GSM Association 
Permanent Reference Documents and the provisions set out in the Annex 
3.1. 
 
9. Billing and Accounting 
9.1. The Parties shall implement billing and accounting according to the GSM 
Association Permanent Reference Documents and the provisions set out in 
Annex 3. 
 
10. Customer Care 
10.1. The responsibilities of each Party concerning Customer Care are described in 
Annex 4. 
 
11. Confidentiality 
11.1. The Parties agree that all aspects of the contents of the Agreement shall be 
treated as Information (as defined below) and no information in respect to the 
content of the Agreement shall be disclosed without the prior written consent 
of the Parties except as reasonably necessary to implement the Agreement  
them 
referred 
(hereinafter 
11.2. In addition to Article 11.1 hereof, the Parties hereby agree to treat all 
information exchanged between 
to as 
"Information") as confidential and agree not to disclose such Information in 
any manner whatsoever, in whole or in part except as provided in this Article 
11. The Parties shall not use any Information other than in connection with the 
discussions between them and any transactions resulting therefrom, or for the 
provision of the Services as contemplated herein. The Parties are also entitled 
to disclose Information to third parties in the context of a possible bona fide 
acquisition or sale of its operations in support of reasonably related due 
diligence activities in respect thereof, or for the borrowing of funds or obtaining 
of insurance, in which case any third parties (including lenders or insurance 
companies) involved in such activities shall be  obliged to enter into 
confidentiality agreements which have the equivalent content as this Article 
11 before receiving the Information. In addition to the foregoing, the Parties 
shall also be entitled to share information with Affiliated Companies, directors, 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
agents, professional advisers, contractors, employees or resellers on a need 
to know basis provided that such Affiliated Companies, agents, contractors, 
employees or resellers have entered into confidentiality agreements in a form 
substantially equivalent to and on terms and conditions no less stringent than 
the terms and conditions set out in this Article 11. Subject to Article 11.3, each 
Party shall be liable in accordance with Article 14 (subject to Article 11.3) 
towards the other Party in respect of any unauthorized disclosure of 
Information made by any other authorized recipients. 
 
11.3. Notwithstanding Article 14, each Party shall be liable under this Agreement to 
the other Party in respect of any proven damage or loss to the other Party 
caused by its unauthorised use or disclosure of such information only up to 
the sum of five hundred thousand (500,000) SDR.  
11.4. Notwithstanding Article 11.1 above, Information and the contents of this 
Agreement may be transmitted to governmental, judicial or regulatory 
authorities, as may be required by any governmental, judicial or regulatory 
authority. 
11.5.  For the purposes of the Agreement, Information and the contents of this 
Agreement shall not be considered to be confidential if such Information is: 
1. 
in or passed into the public domain other than by breach of this Article; 
or 
2. known to a receiving Party prior to the disclosure by a disclosing Party; 
or 
3. disclosed to a receiving Party without restriction by a third party having 
4. 
the full right to disclose; or 
independently developed by a receiving Party to whom no disclosure 
of confidential Information relevant to such Information has been 
made. 
11.6. Each Party agrees that in the event of a breach or threatened breach of Article 
11, the harm suffered by the other Party would not be compensable by 
monetary damages alone and, accordingly, in addition to other available legal 
or equitable remedies, the other Party shall be entitled to apply for an 
injunction or specific performance with respect to such breach or threatened 
breach, without proof of actual damages (and without the requirement of 
posting a bond or other security) and each Party agrees not to plead 
sufficiency of damages as a defence.  
11.7. Article 11 shall survive the termination of the Agreement for a period of ten 
(10) years but shall not in any way limit or restrict a disclosing Party's use of 
its own confidential Information. 
 
12. Data Privacy  
12.1. Each Party’s obligations hereunder to transfer information to the other Party 
shall not apply to the extent that a Party is prohibited from doing so by the 
regulations and laws of its own country applicable to IR and/or data protection.  
12.2.  Each Party shall inform its customers that during roaming, the storage, 
treatment and transfer of their personal data may be subject to regulation 
different from the regulation in their own country. 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
12.3.  The Parties confirm that they shall comply with the Data Privacy 
Regulations/Laws applicable in their respective countries.  
 
 
13. Fraud Prevention 
13.1. The Parties shall comply with the procedures and provisions concerning 
fraudulent or unauthorised use by Roaming Customers set out in the GSM 
Association Permanent Reference Documents. The Parties shall implement 
fraud prevention procedures as specified by the GSM Association Binding 
PRD BA.20. 
13.2  Are considered as an “acceptable periodical travel presence” on the Proximus 
network the presence of maximum 15 % of the Roaming- In subscribers of 
the EU operator for maximum 30 days in a 4 months period and 5% of the 
Roaming-In subscribers for maximum 90 days in a 4 months period. 
Notwithstanding any clause to the contrary in any other document, if more 
than 15% of the Roaming-In subscribers of the EU operator are detected by 
the Proximus network for more than 30 days in a 4 months period or more 
than 5% of the Roaming-In subscribers are detected for more than 90 days in 
a 4 months period, the corresponding usage that exceeds the above 
mentioned parameters will be considered as a “Suspected fraudulent or 
unauthorised use” of Proximus network. When this suspected fraudulent or 
unauthorised use is observed by Proximus, a monthly penalty for voice, SMS 
messages and data will be invoiced in accordance with the traffic volume 
generated as specified in annex 9 of the Agreement, without prejudice to 
Proximus’ right to suspend the service according to clause 15.1 (and notably 
15.1.3). 
Notwithstanding any clause to the contrary, in the event penalties have been 
invoiced for a total period of six months during a contractual year, Proximus 
reserves the right to terminate the present Agreement in accordance with the 
procedure described in Art 3 of the Regulation n°531/2012 amended by 
Regulation 2017/920 on roaming on public mobile communication networks 
within the European Union. During this procedure, the penalties remain due 
(if applicable) 
Proximus reserves the right to review the parameters indicated in the present 
regulated offer to define what is considered as an “acceptable periodical travel 
presence” after having notified the BIPT of the objective grounds based on 
which Proximus considers that the current parameters are no more 
appropriate. 
The present Article 13.2 only applies to EU/EEA traffic. 
 
 
 
 
14. Liability of the Parties 
14.1. Neither Party shall be liable to the other Party under or in connection with the 
Agreement except: 
1. in respect of charges to be paid to Proximus pursuant to Article 7; 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
2. to the extent of its negligence where such negligence results in proven 
damages or loss to the other Party, in which event the liability of the 
negligent Party shall be limited to and shall in no event exceed two 
hundred and fifty thousand (250,000) SDR in respect of any one 
incident or series of incidents arising from the same cause; 
3. in respect of charges arising from non-compliance with binding GSM 
Association Permanent Reference Documents pursuant to Article 13. 
 
14.2. Furthermore, in no event shall either Party be liable for any consequential 
damage or loss of whatsoever nature, including but not limited to, loss of 
profit or loss of business, even if such Party has been advised of the 
possibility of such loss or damage. 
14.3. 
In no event shall any employee of either Party or of an Affiliated Company 
be liable to the other Party for any act of negligence or intent under or in 
connection with the Agreement. Save for the limitations in Articles 14.1 and 
14.2 nothing in the foregoing shall in any way restrict the liability of either 
Party for the actions of its employees. 
14.4. Limitation of liability as described in this Article shall not apply if damage or 
loss is caused by a Party's wilful misconduct (including fraud) or gross 
negligence. 
 
15. Suspension of Services 
15.1. Notwithstanding anything in the Agreement to the contrary, Proximus may 
without liability suspend or terminate all or any of its Services to Roaming 
Customer(s) in circumstances where it would suspend or terminate those 
Services to its own customers, including but not limited to: 
1. Roaming Customers using equipment which is defective or illegal; or 
2. Roaming Customers causing any technical or other problems on 
Proximus’s Public Mobile Network; or 
3. Suspected fraudulent or unauthorised use; or 
4. Authentication of the legal relationship not being possible; or 
5. Traffic volumes which significantly differ from predicted volumes; or 
6. Maintenance or enhancement of its Public Mobile Network; or 
7. Suspension by non-payment exceeding 3 months. 
15.2. In case of a proposed suspension of Services to all Roaming Customers, 
Proximus shall use commercially reasonable efforts to give four (4) weeks 
written notice (shorter notice may apply given the circumstances related to the 
suspension) to Operator prior to the suspension taking effect.  If the 
suspension continues for more than six (6) months, Operator shall have the 
right to terminate the Agreement with immediate effect by written notice. 
15.3. Operator has the right at any time, for technical reasons, without liability but 
upon detailed written notice to Proximus, to suspend access to the Services 
to its Roaming Customers. Alternatively, if it is technically more practicable, 
Operator may require Proximus to suspend all of its Services to Roaming 
Customers of Operator. Proximus shall use commercially reasonable efforts 
to comply with such requirement within seven (7) calendar days after receipt 
of the said notice. 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
15.4. The Parties agree that the suspension described in Article 15.3 shall be 
removed as soon as the technical reason for the suspension has been 
overcome by Proximus or Operator as the case may be.  
 
 
16. Force Majeure 
16.1. Non-performance of either Party’s obligations pursuant to the Agreement or 
delay in performing same (except with respect to the payment of charges 
applicable hereunder) shall not constitute a breach of the Agreement if, and 
for as long as, it is due to a force majeure event, including, but not being 
limited to, governmental action, or requirement of regulatory authority, 
lockouts, strikes, shortage of transportation, war, rebellion or other military 
action, fire, flood, natural catastrophes, or any other unforeseeable obstacles 
that a Party is not able to overcome with reasonable efforts, or non-
performance of obligations by a sub-contractor to a Party pursuant to any of 
the aforementioned reasons.  The Party prevented from fulfilling its 
obligations shall on becoming aware of such event inform the other Party in 
writing of such force majeure event as soon as possible. If the force majeure 
event continues for more than six (6) months, either Party shall have the right 
to terminate the Agreement with immediate effect by written notice. 
16.2. If the affected Party fails to inform the other Party of the occurrence of a force 
majeure event as set forth in Article 16.1 above, then such Party thereafter 
shall not be entitled to refer such events to force majeure as a reason for 
non-fulfilment. This obligation does not apply if the force majeure event is 
known by both Parties or the affected Party is unable to inform the other 
Party due to the force majeure event.  
 
17. Duration of the Agreement 
17.1. The Agreement comes into force on the Date of the Agreement Without 
prejudice to the conditions of Articles 15.2, 16.1 and 18, the Agreement shall 
have a duration of one (1) year as from the Date of the Agreement and shall 
be subject to tacit yearly renewals unless one of the Parties receives a 
termination notice 3 months prior to the end of the then current term. 
The present Article 17.1 is without prejudice to the termination rules as 
detailed in article 18 below. 
 
18. Termination of the Agreement 
18.1. In addition to the conditions of Articles 15.2, 16.1 and 17 the Agreement may 
be terminated as follows: 
1. by mutual agreement of the Parties in writing subject to a prior notice of 
six (6) months; or 
2. by one of the Parties, with immediate effect, when the other Party is in 
material breach of the Agreement and does not or is not capable of 
remedying such breach within thirty (30) days of receipt of a written notice 
to such effect; 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
3. by one of the Parties, with immediate effect, if the other Party becomes 
bankrupt or insolvent or if that other Party enters into any composition or 
arrangement with its creditors and that other Party is not able to ensure 
performance of its obligations under the Agreement by a guarantee from 
a first class bank, payable on first written demand; 
4. by written notice of either Party to the other in the event that IR becomes 
technically or commercially impracticable on Proximus’s Public Mobile 
Network and the provisions set out in Article 15 are not sufficient to solve 
the problem or if an unacceptable level of unauthorized use occurs and 
the other Party is not capable of remedying such unauthorized use within 
sixty (60) days of receipt of a written notice to such effect; or 
5. subject to Article 14.1 immediately in the event a final order by the relevant 
governmental authority revoking or denying renewal of the license(s) or 
permission to operate a Public Mobile Network(s) granted to either Party, 
or any other license necessary to operate the Service(s), takes effect. 
18.2. In the event of termination on the grounds of a breach of the Agreement under 
the Article 18.1.2, the Party in breach shall, notwithstanding Article 14.2, be 
liable to the other Party (in addition to charges properly due and payable to 
Proximus) for proven direct damage or loss (excluding indirect or consequential 
damage or loss) arising as a consequence of such breach up to a maximum 
aggregate liability of two hundred and fifty thousand (250,000) SDR, provided, 
however, that such limitation of liability shall not apply if a damage or loss is 
caused by a Party’s wilful misconduct or gross negligence. 
 
19. Changes to the Agreement, Annexes and Addenda 
19.1. Any amendments and/or additions to the Agreement and/or Annexes and/or 
Addenda shall be valid only if made in writing and signed by duly authorized 
representatives of both Parties hereto. 
19.2. Notwithstanding Article 19.1 Proximus shall be entitled to:  
1. implement new Services or change existing Services as it sees fit subject 
to the successful completion of all network and billing test procedures as 
set out in the Technical Specifications and the GSM Association 
Permanent Reference Documents and as requested by either Party. 
Proximus shall give Operator at least thirty (30) days’ prior written notice 
of any implementation of Services for the first time. Proximus also agrees 
to use its reasonable efforts to give the other Party at least thirty (30) days 
prior written notice of any other proposed implementation of new Services 
or change of existing Services which is a major change which has an 
impact on IR;  
 
2. terminate all or any existing Services offered by or to a roaming partner. 
Proximus agrees to use its reasonable efforts to give Operator at least 
sixty (60) days prior written notice of any termination of existing Services 
which is a major change which has an impact on IR; or 
 
3. subject to the constraints of the Roaming Regulation, vary its tariff stated 
in the Annex 8 or subsequent variation thereof. In the case of scheduled 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
changes (as described in BA.27) Proximus shall give sixty (60) days 
written notice of any variation to its tariff and the new change shall take 
effect on the first day of the month following the expiration of the sixty (60) 
day notice period. In the case of unscheduled changes Proximus shall use 
all reasonable endeavours to give adequate notice of such changes and 
the new change shall take effect on the first day following the expiration of 
the notice period given. Any variation in the tariff shall be deemed to be 
incorporated into the Agreement. Any challenges to changes to the Tariff 
shall be made in accordance with Article 23.22.2; 
 
19.3. The references to Technical Specifications and binding GSM Association 
Permanent Reference Documents in Article 5.1 (1) and (2) shall be deemed to 
include references to these documents as amended by GSM Association from 
time to time.  However the reference to non-binding GSM Association 
Permanent Reference Documents in Article 5.1(3) shall not be deemed to 
include a reference to such non-binding documents as amended by GSM 
Association from time to time unless and to the extent that this is expressly 
agreed by the Parties and detailed in the Agreement, including the Annexes. 
This Article 19.23 shall be subject to Article 5.2.  
19.4. It is also recognised by the Parties that it may be appropriate to seek changes 
to the Agreement in the light of experience and development in the GSM 
Association and the establishment of IR between the Parties. Accordingly, the 
Parties shall enter into good faith discussions with a view to agreeing mutually 
acceptable modifications to the Agreement. 
 
20. Miscellaneous 
 
20.1. 
Successors and Assigns 
The Agreement and the rights and obligations specified herein shall be 
binding upon the Parties hereto and their respective legal successors and 
neither Party shall sell, transfer or assign the Agreement or any part, interest, 
right or obligation hereunder, except that a Party shall have the right to 
transfer or assign the Agreement in whole (but not in part) to an Affiliated 
Company who is also a Member of the GSM Association or to an assignee of 
its license or right to operate a Public Mobile Network(s) provided that such 
assignee expressly assumes, by written instrument approved by the Parties, 
all of the obligations of such Party hereunder and thereby becomes a Party 
hereunder, it being understood that such assignment shall not release the 
assigning Party of its obligations under Article 11 of this Agreement.  No 
person other than a Party to the Agreement shall acquire any rights hereunder 
as a third-party beneficiary or otherwise by virtue of the Agreement. 
 
 
20.2. 
Headings 
The headings of the Agreement are for the convenience of reference only 
and shall in no way limit or affect the meaning or interpretation of the 
provisions of the Agreement. 
20.3. 
No waiver 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
Failure by any Party at any time or times to require performance of any 
provisions of the Agreement shall in no manner affect its rights to enforce the 
same, and the waiver by any Party of any breach of any provisions of the 
Agreement shall not be construed to be a waiver by such Party of any 
succeeding breach of such provision or waiver by such Party of any breach of 
any other provision hereof. 
 
 
 
 
 
20.4. 
Provisions severable 
If any part of the Agreement or any Annex hereto is held to be invalid or 
unenforceable, such determination shall not invalidate any other provision of 
the Agreement or Annexes hereto; and the Parties shall attempt, through 
negotiations in good faith, to replace any part of the Agreement or Annexes 
hereto so held to be invalid or unenforceable.  The failure of the Parties to 
agree on such replacement shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts 
of the Agreement. 
20.5. 
Notices 
All notices, information and communications required under the Agreement 
shall be given as described in Annex 1: Agreement Management Principles. 
20.6. 
Compliance with Laws and Regulatory requirements  
The commitment of the Parties hereto shall be subject to all applicable laws 
and/or regulatory requirements, present and future, of any governmental or 
regulatory authority having jurisdiction over the Parties hereto, as well as any 
valid order of a court of competent jurisdiction. 
20.7. 
Anti-bribery compliance 
The Parties hereby acknowledge the importance of combating and preventing 
bribery and to that end both Parties agree to comply fully with all applicable 
laws, regulations and sanctions relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption. 
 
21. Choice of Law 
21.1. The Agreement and any matters relating hereto shall be governed by and construed 
in accordance with Swiss law. 
 
22. Dispute Resolution & Arbitration 
22.1. The Parties agree to seek to resolve any dispute arising out of the Agreement in 
accordance with the following escalation procedures before commencing the 
arbitration procedures described below. 
The Contact Persons of both Parties shall work in good faith to try to resolve the 
dispute within thirty days from the date that a Party first gives notice that a dispute 
has occurred. 
If the Contact Persons fail to reach an agreement on the dispute within thirty days, 
the dispute shall be referred to more senior persons within the respective 
companies who shall try to resolve the dispute within a further thirty-day period. If 
no resolution is found each Party is entitled to commence the arbitration 
proceedings described below. 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
Parties agree that all disputes in connection with the Agreement shall be settled 
under the Rules of Conciliation and Arbitration of the International Chamber of 
Commerce (ICC) by three (3) arbitrators appointed in accordance with the said 
Rules.  
22.2. However disputes with respect to a change of Proximus’s Tariff shall be governed 
by the procedure set out below: 
 
Where there is a challenge by Operator (the “Challenging Party”) to a scheduled 
or an unscheduled change of Proximus Tariff the following procedure shall apply; 
The Challenging Party shall receive notice of a change of the Tariff in accordance 
with the procedure outlined in Annex 1. Within fourteen (14) days from the date of 
the notice given in accordance with the procedure in Annex 1 the Challenging 
Party shall notify the other Party by email or fax and registered mail that it intends 
to lodge a challenge to the change of the Tariff and shall provide a reason to justify 
the challenge.  
The Contact Persons of both Parties shall then have up until and including day 
thirty-five (35) to try and resolve the dispute. If after day thirty-five (35) no resolution 
is found the matter will be escalated to a more senior person in each organisation. 
Such person will then have a further twenty-one (21) days to try and reach a 
settlement, that is up to and including day fifty-six (56). 
If after the expiration of day fifty-six (56) the parties are still in dispute then the 
Challenging Party must decide if it wishes to launch arbitration proceedings. The 
Challenging Party must inform the other Party in writing that it intends to initiate 
arbitration proceedings and must commence formal procedures with the 
International Chamber of Commerce in Geneva before the expiration of day sixty 
(60).  
Thereafter the dispute in connection with the change of the Tariff shall be finally 
settled under the Rules of Conciliation and Arbitration of the International Chamber 
of Commerce (ICC) by three (3) arbitrators appointed in accordance with the said 
Rules. 
Both Parties agree that the decision of the arbitrator shall not be treated as 
confidential by either Party.  
22.3. The place of arbitration shall be Geneva, Switzerland and the proceedings shall be 
conducted in the English language. 
22.4. The award shall be final and binding and the Parties hereby waive all means of 
recourse to the courts of any country except for the purpose of enforcement 
procedures.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
 
 
23. Signatures 
 
 
Place …................................... 
 
Place …................................... 
 
 
Date …...................................  
 
Date …................................... 
 
 
…...........................................  
 
For Proximus  
 
…........................................... 
 
  For Operator  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
 
24. Overview of the Annex Structure 
 
Annex number 
Annex name 
Agreement Management Principles 
Services 
Billing and Accounting 
Information on Billing Data 
Settlement Procedure 
Customer Care Principles 
Technical Aspects 
Testing 
Security 
Information on Signalling Interconnection and / or IP Connectivity 
Data Privacy, General Principles 
Roaming Service Level Agreement 
Roaming Provider Services, Tariffs and other Information 
Penalties suspected fraudulent or unauthorised use 
ANNEX 1 
ANNEX 2 
ANNEX 3 
 ANNEX 3.1 
 ANNEX 3.2 
ANNEX 4 
ANNEX 5 
 ANNEX 5.1 
 ANNEX 5.2 
 ANNEX 5.3 
ANNEX 6 
ANNEX 7 
ANNEX 8 
ANNEX 9 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
Annex 1 AGREEMENT MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES 
1. Notices 
 Each Party specifies only one contact point for exchange of updates to the 
Agreement 
 
Proximus  
 Yves Moraine, Roaming Manager 
 Avenue roi Albert II, 27 
1030 Brussels 
Belgium 
 
 
Operator 
[ ]  
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
 
Annex 2 SERVICES 
 
The implementation of Services shall be in accordance with the Technical Specifications 
with the exception of Public Mobile Network specific deviations and/or chosen options 
agreed by both Parties during the testing phase.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
 
Annex 3 BILLING AND ACCOUNTING 
 
 
Annex 3.1 INFORMATION ON BILLING DATA 
 
3.1.1 INFORMATION ON TAP 
The implementation of the TAP necessary to provide Services shall be in accordance with 
the GSM Association Permanent Reference Documents.  
 
 
ANNEX 3.2 SETTLEMENT PROCEDURE  
Proximus will prepare a monthly invoice for calls registered during the invoice period made 
by the visiting subscribers in the visited PMN Operator. 
. 
The invoice period shall in general be a calendar month. However, a single transfer 
covering a month end shall not be divided between two invoices. The invoice has to be 
sent by the 15th of the following month at latest. A fax can serve as the first information. 
The invoice should adequately enable the Operator to identify the TAP records. 
Each invoice amount will be expressed both in SDR as well as in Euros 
Proximus will issue as appropriate credit notes and correction invoices to compensate for 
agreed changes to or agreed errors in the basic inter PMN Operator invoices. The 
threshold amount for issuing the Credit Note is 50 SDR. In any case, a Credit Note shall 
be issued at least once a year before the year-end. 
Payment shall be made in the creditors national currency calculated from the net SDR 
balance obtained by the netting process. Conversion from SDR into the currency of payment 
shall be made at the pegged rate quoted by the IMF on the 23rd of the month preceding the 
invoice period. If this is a public holiday and the exchange rate is not quoted the currency is 
pegged using the previous day. In the event that no exchange rate is quoted for the previous 
day as well, the first available quoted rate should be taken, but not exceeding 5 calendar 
days prior to the 23rd of the month as defined in Permanent Reference Document BA.11. 
Payment by the debtor shall be made within 30 days from the date of the invoice with the 
later date. 
If the debtor does not pay the net balance by the due date for payment then the creditor 
shall have the right to charge its normal interest rate on the overdue amount from the due 
date for payment until payment is made. 
The normal interest rate for the Party concerned is: 
8% above Euribor three-monthly rate base lending rate (from time to time in force) in the 
case where Proximus is the creditor; 
Changes in time schedules concerning the exchange of invoices and settlement periods shall 
be fixed three months before implementation at the latest. 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
All enquiries and complaints concerning international invoicing shall be done through points 
of contact as defined in Annex I. 
The Operator shall pay any Value Added Tax (VAT) or other similar tax in accordance with 
the laws of the Proximus's country.  
The invoice amount has to include and specify all taxes and duties levied in the 
country of the Proximus. 
In case the VAT recovery is possible in the country of the Proximus, the VAT 
registration number has to be shown on the invoice and the address of the VAT office 
which deals with enquiries and claims referring to VAT refunding has to be exchanged 
bilaterally. 
Where bank fees occur, any such expenses imposed in the debtor country shall be borne 
by the debtor and expenses imposed in the creditor country, including payment expenses 
imposed by intermediate banks in third countries, shall be borne by the creditor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
ANNEX 4 CUSTOMER CARE PRINCIPLES 
General 
A Roaming Customer should contact the Customer Care Services of his home contract 
partner (Customer Care Services of Operator) while roaming in the Public Mobile Network 
of Proximus. This home Customer Care Services will provide the first point of contact but 
may refer the Roaming Customer to Proximus’s Customer Care Services if appropriate. 
The Roaming Customer is free to contact Proximus’s Customer Care Services directly. 
However, the primary responsibility for customer care remains with Operator. 
Each Party will ensure that there is, at least during office hours, an English speaking operator 
on duty, to whom a Roaming Customer can be referred.  
Customer care contact numbers are defined in the standard AA14 documents.  
Public Mobile Network Faults 
In the event of a perceived Public Mobile Network fault a Roaming Customer should 
contact the home Customer Care Services while roaming in the Public Mobile Network of 
Proximus. The home Customer Care Services will provide the first point of contact but may 
refer the Roaming Customer to Proximus’s Customer Care Services if appropriate. 
In the event that the Customer Care Services of one Party has a query concerning potential 
faults of the other Party’s Public Mobile Network, then the Customer Care Services shall 
contact the contact point defined in Annex 1. 
In addition, it may be necessary that technical experts of one Party get into direct contact 
with the other Party’s technical experts (e.g. to establish trouble shooting). In such cases 
additional contact points shall be provided. These contact points are defined below. 
Frequently arising faults in the Public Mobile Network or Services of Proximus experienced 
by Roaming Customers and indicated to Operator shall be reported to the other Party’s 
contact point defined in Annex 1. 
Lost/Stolen SIM and/or USIM-Cards 
In the event that a SIM and/or USIM-card is lost or stolen, the Roaming Customer shall be 
asked to contact his home Customer Care Services. If the Roaming Customer contacts 
Proximus’s Customer Care Services, Proximus’s Customer Care Services will provide the 
Roaming Customer with the contact number of his home Customer Care Services. 
Lost/stolen or Faulty Mobile Equipment 
In the event that mobile equipment is lost, stolen, or faulty, the Roaming Customer shall be 
asked to contact his home Customer Care Services. If the Roaming Customer contacts 
Proximus’s Customer Care Services he will be referred to his home Customer Care 
Services. 
Billing Enquiries 
In the event that a Roaming Customer has an enquiry relating to the amount billed during 
roaming, the Roaming Customer shall resolve this query with his home Customer Care 
Services. Any contact with Proximus will be achieved through his home Customer Care 
Services. 
Customer Service Numbers 
Reference is made to standard AA14 documents. 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
Customer Service Numbers (Public Domain) 
Reference is made to standard AA14 documents. 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
ANNEX 5 TECHNICAL ASPECTS 
Technical aspects concerning both the pre-commercial and commercial phases of 
International Roaming are dealt with in the Annexes to follow. 
 
 
ANNEX 5.1 TESTING 
 
Certification of testing 
The Operator shall send Completion Certificates confirming the successful execution of 
IREG tests which includes testing of the TAP procedures according to the Test 
Specifications of GSM Association Permanent Reference Documents.  
Testing of Service availability 
Proximus agrees to perform relevant tests of service availability, according to the IREG and 
TADIG Test Specifications, every time a major change which has an impact on 
International Roaming 
Testing SIM and/or USIM-Cards General 
Operator will make the bilaterally agreed number of test SIM and/or USIM-cards available to 
Proximus under the following conditions: 
Send test SIM and/or USIM-card(s) as agreed bilaterally in a written notice without any 
activation fee or any subscription fee. 
All necessary information concerning the SIM and/or USIM-card(s), i.e. IMSI, MSISDN, PIN, 
PUK, shall be forwarded to Proximus as well. 
The SIM and/or USIM-card(s) remain in the property of the Wholesale Roaming Access 
Provider. 
The test SIM and/or USIM-card(s) shall only be used in Proximus’s Public Mobile Network 
for the purpose of testing of International Roaming functions. 
TAP-data for traffic generated by these test SIM and/or USIM-card(s) shall be included in the 
normal billing and accounting procedures and thereby also invoiced by Proximus. 
None of the above shall be construed to allow reselling the SIM and/or USIM-card(s) or in 
any other way forward the SIM and/or USIM-card on conditions that could be negative for 
the Wholesale Roaming Access Provider.  
Tests before the commercial start of roaming services (pre-commercial roaming 
phase) 
As a general principle, it is agreed that Proximus using test-SIM and/or USIM-card(s) will 
not receive a payable bill from the issuing Operator for the test calls made in the Public 
Mobile Network under test. TAP-data and bills will only be sent for test purposes. 
Unless otherwise agreed, it is the sole responsibility of Operator to block Roaming 
Customers of Operator during the pre-commercial phase and in no case the Proximus has 
to bear the costs incurred by its customers roaming in Proximus’s Public Mobile Network. 
Tests during the commercial roaming phase 
As a general principle it is agreed that during the commercial roaming phase the usage of 
these SIM and/or USIM-card(s) is fully chargeable for traffic charges. The Operator shall 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
therefore have the right to send a (single) bill to Proximus for the traffic generated by the 
exchanged SIM and/or USIM-card(s), however, only if the amount exceeds the bilaterally 
agreed non chargeable value. The amount charged is only the amount exceeding the non-
chargeable value calculated on a monthly basis.  
The non-chargeable monthly value per test SIM/for the total of test SIMs is 50 Euro.  
The tariff used will be either the Tariff of Proximus or the Wholesale Roaming Acces 
Requester retail tariff. In case the retail tariff is used, the Operator will attach an itemised 
bill to the invoice for control purposes. The payment shall be done according to the 
provisions set out in Annex 3.2. The invoice regarding test SIM and/or USIM-card(s) shall 
be sent to the address indicated for that purpose in Annex 1. 
In the event that Proximus has a query concerning the Operator test SIM and/or USIMcard(s), 
then Proximus shall contact: 
CONTACT NAME & DETAILS: 
Calls made outside Proximus during pre-commercial or commercial roaming phase 
All costs occurring for calls made with test SIM and/or USIM cards issued to Proximus 
outside Proximus’s network will be charged by the Operator. The Operator has the right to 
decide how to charge this usage of test SIM and/or USIM cards.  
The tariff used will be the Operator retail tariff. The Operator will attach an itemised bill to 
the invoice for control purposes. The payment shall be done according to the provisions set 
out in Annex 3.2. The invoice regarding test SIM and/or USIM-card(s) shall be sent to the 
address indicated for that purpose in Annex 1.Using best endeavours, the Operator will 
inform Proximus and bar the test SIM and/or USIM card(s) being used outside Proximus’s 
Network. 
Proximus is fully liable for all call costs as detailed above, damages and costs (as limited by 
this agreement) incurred by misuse of test SIM and/or USIM cards outside Proximus for the 
first 180 calendar days or until it is informed by the Operator, whichever is the smaller: 
Lost or stolen test SIM and/or USIM cards 
In the event that Proximus determines it is no longer in possession of the Operator Test 
SIM and/or USIM cards, Proximus must immediately notify the Operator in written form and 
request that the missing card(s) be deactivated. Once sufficient notification has been 
delivered to the Operator, the liability of Proximus ceases for all further usage on the 
missing cards(s) which occurs beyond the date of notification. However, the burden is on 
Proximus to provide sufficient proof that adequate notification was given to the Operator. 
 
ANNEX 5.2 SECURITY 
Security functions of the individual Parties are specified in here and any other PRD 
documents. 
Authentication 
The Parties agree to implement Customer Identity Authentication for Roamers on their 
network. The purpose and mechanism for authentication are described in GSM 02.09 and 
in GSMA PRD SG.15.  
The Parties agree that authentication shall be performed as specified below: 
For roamed customers (at the commencement of GSM service or 3G service) authentication 
is to be performed at every occasion of: • Network access using IMSI 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
• Location updating involving VLR change 
• Network access for at least 1 in 9 mobile originated and terminated call set-ups 
• Supplementary service operation outside call 
• Cipher key sequence number mismatch 
If GPRS is supported, authentication is also to be performed at every occasion of: 
• GPRS attach 
• routing area updating involving SGSN change 
• PDP context activation 
• P-TIMSI (P- Temporary IMSI) signature mismatch, if P-TMSI signature is used 
• P-TMSI signature not inserted in a Attach Request or Routing Area Update Request 
Authentication during a malfunction of the network 
The Parties agree that if an MS is registered and has been successfully authenticated, 
whether active or not active on a call, calls are permitted (including continuation and 
handover).Operator will receive the charge. 
If an MS attempts to register or re-register and cannot be successfully authenticated due to 
the network malfunction, calls are not permitted. 
If an MS has already been registered on the network, and has already been authenticated, 
and cannot be successfully re-authenticated due to network malfunction (e.g. the Operator 
was not able to provide authentication pairs RAND, SRES), the Parties agree that calls are 
not permitted and that the Operator will not receive any charges. 
 
 
 
ANNEX 5.3 INFORMATION ON SIGNALLING INTERCONNECTION 
AND/OR IP CONNECTIVITY 
The implementation of the Signalling Protocols and/or Inter-PLMN backbone (as defined in 
IREG PRDs) shall be in accordance with the Technical Specifications and relevant GSM 
Association Permanent Reference Documents with the exception of Public Mobile Network 
specific deviations and/or chosen options agreed by both Parties during the testing phase. 
The technical information relevant for International Roaming shall be exchanged between 
the Parties as part of IREG testing procedures and IREG PRDs. 
Each Party agrees to adhere to the processes set out in PRD IR.21, Article 4: Procedures 
for Updating the Database, when making changes in the numbering and addressing 
information with an impact on International Roaming or SMS Interworking. 
  
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
ANNEX 6 DATA PRIVACY. GENERAL PRINCIPLES 
In addition to Article 12 of the Agreement, Parties may agree on further Data Privacy 
requirements. 
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
 
ANNEX 7 Roaming Service Level Agreement 
 
Roaming service shall be offered on a reasonable effort basis and no party shall be liable to 
the other in the event of failure of service after activation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
Annex 8 Roaming Provider Services, Tariffs and other Information 
 
 
 
Tariffs1 
Cfr. max caps in  
Article 72, Article 9 and Article 12 of 
EU/EEA 
the Roaming Regulation 
 
 
Other locations non 
EU/EEA 
On request 
It is expected that Proximus will send to the Operator a PDF version of their RAEX AA.14 as 
agreed between the Parties. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 In EURO and excl. VAT. 
2 Billing step voice = 30 sec + 1 sec 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
Proximus reference offer of 29/05/2017 
 
Unilateral Direct Wholesale Roaming Access Agreement : Main terms & conditions 
ANNEX 9 Penalties suspected fraudulent or unauthorised use 
 
In case suspected fraudulent or unauthorised use is observed by Proximus in line with the 
provisions of article 13.2 of the Agreement, a monthly penalty in addition to the monthly 
invoice will be applied for all services (voice, SMS messages and data) in accordance with 
the traffic volume generated on a monthly basis.  
 
 
 Tariffs excl. VAT 
 
 
In case suspected fraudulent or unauthorised use is observed after a 4 months observation 
period, Proximus will send a notification to the Operator within 15 days with the penalty that 
is due. For invoicing and payment the provisions of annex 3.2 of the Agreement will apply. 
The penalty will be applied retro-actively for the first 4 months of the observation period. After 
this, Proximus will continue to apply a penalty on a monthly basis as long as the suspected 
fraudulent or unauthorised use is observed based on a rolling 4 months observation period. 
In the event penalties have been invoiced for a total period of six months during one 
contractual year, Proximus reserves the right to terminate the present Agreement in 
accordance with the procedure described in Art 3 of the Regulation n°531/2012 amended by 
Regulation 2017/ 920 on roaming on public mobile communication networks within the 
European Union. During this procedure, the penalties remain due (if applicable). 
 
 
 
 
 
This reference offer is made pursuant to article 3(5) of Regulation EU/531/2012; it is subject to updates & completions by 
Proximus.  
 
This document sets out the main principles; it needs to be completed and if relevant amended on a case by case basis.  
Sensitivity: Confidential 
<1.000 GB/month30.000,0 €<1.000.000 min/month40.000,0 €<1.000.000 SMS/month15.000,0 €≥1.000 and <10.000 GB/month150.000,0 €≥1.000.000 and <10.000.000 min/month200.000,0 €≥1.000.000 and <10.000.000 SMS/month75.000,0 €≥10.000 and <100.000 GB/month1.500.000,0 €≥10.000.000 and <100.000.000 min/month2.000.000,0 €≥10.000.000 and <100.000.000 SMS/month750.000,0 €≥100.000 GB/month4.500.000,0 €≥100.000.000 min/month6.000.000,0 €≥100.000.000 SMS/month2.000.000,0 €DataVoiceSMS